.. title: Running away again
.. slug: running-away-again
.. date: 2016-11-10 23:12:40 UTC
.. tags: personal,me
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. nocomments: True

[I originally posted this on Facebook; I've disabled comments here because I
don't think I can cope with them over here on my blog, but if you really need
to comment you can find me on Facebook or elsewhere]

I've run away several times in my life.

The very first time was as a teenager; I don't even recall exactly what it was
that triggered it, I think it was anxiety over a compulsory school camp that I
didn't want to attend. I didn't have a plan, I didn't even have any real
intention to actually run away for real, I just felt like I was trapped and
needed to escape / lash out somehow. "Running away" amounted to declaring my
intent, leaving the house, hiding somewhere nearby while everyone frantically
searched for me, and eventually returning a few hours later once I had calmed
down a bit. Of course, at the time, I wasn't really capable of fully
understanding the situation; I didn't understand the destructive mental paths
that lead to being unable to cope, I didn't really care how much emotional
stress I was causing to others, and I didn't realise that had I been able to
communicate better about how I was feeling, I could probably have dealt with
things much better. In short: I was wrong to run away this time. Then again, I
was just a teenager, so I think I can be forgiven for failing at those things.

Later on in life, running away took on a more sophisticated form. Once I gained
sufficient control over my life (both in the legal and the financial sense), I
took steps to cut certain people out of it. I have few regrets about the
process (which was staggered, not something I did all at once); some
relationships and interactions are simply not healthy or beneficial for the
parties involved, and not having to deal with the constant stress of those
interactions definitely improved my mental health and my life in general by
quite a bit. In short: I think I was right to run away this time. But in the
end, it was still running away; I couldn't cope with the situation, so I chose
not to cope with it.

And now…recent events surrounding the 2016 US elections are slowly producing
that rising sense of panic and inability to cope again. The elections
themselves are not the trigger; rather, it is the conversations they have
sparked which has lead me to realise certain things about relatives,
acquaintainces, and friends. As most of you probably know, I'm no stranger to
intellectual debate / conflict; this isn't about that. I can quite happily
handle interactions with someone I disagree with on politics, economics, or
what have you; most of the time, I'm happy to discuss / argue the matter for
hours, unpacking our disagreement into differences in assumptions vs.
differences in reasoning, and ending with a better understanding of both sides
even if my mind remains unchanged.

But this is different: this is a conflict over whether or not we should care
about other people. Caring about other people is something I learned as an
incontrovertible truth from childhood, not a selective privilege to be extended
to only some and not others. I now realise that many around me do not feel the
same way; they feel that some people are not deserving of their care, for
whatever reason, and…I don't know how to deal with this.

I feel like running away this time would be a mistake, that I need to stay and
engage with these people, attempt to change their minds; but I have no idea how
to do this, and I fear the poisoning of either my own mind, or my
relationships, as a result of this. I fear that to maintain these relationships
as-is, with no condemnation, will result in sending the message that I support
something I do not. I fear that such condemnation would inevitably lead to the
destruction of those relationships anyway, accomplishing nothing good in the
end. I fear that by running away, I am losing the opportunity to do something
about all of this. I feel guilty because of my fear; there are others who do
not even have the option of running away, others who are the direct target of
the uncaring and the hatred, rather than mere bystanders who can leave at any
other time. How much worse must their fear be than mine?

And so here I am, trapped in a seemingly endless mental loop, afraid to run and
afraid not to run.
